---
layout: post
title:  "It all started,"
date:   2016-09-22 05:18:00 +0000
---

unbeknownst to me at the time, with a client side graphical browser massively online role playing game(MMORPG) called runescape.
For as long as I can remember, video games has been an intrical part of my life. A close friend that has journeyed with me from adolescent to adulthood. What started out with a nintendo 64 quickly became a dreamcast, xbox, playstation and home computer. It did not really matter from where I got my fix, as long as I was playing something I was happy.  Video  games would grow to have a profound effect on my life.

In comes the dawn of MMORPGs and, as I know it, cheating. First and froremost, cheating wasn't really new. There were many abuses for the older games be it beating shooting practice mode for extra bullets in boyou billy or riding on the coast of cinnibar island for infinite masterbals in the original pokemon games. But once i started playing online games, things took a different twist.

There were only one computer in my living room. One of those package AOL computers running windows 98; it was bulky, loud, and slow. My two brothers and I fought constantly on who gets how many hours on it come friday and saturday. Playing during the weekday and sunday was out of the picture. My younger brother and I, often losing to the eldest, ran at the first oppertunity to log into cartoon network. Playing Dextors Laboratory and Kids Next Door was immensely entertaining, but then we were introduced, via older brother, to a webrowser game called Runescape.

It was incredible, unlinke anything we've played before. We grew up very competitive so each of us would often try to outperform the other, opting for better gears and items. As you can imagine, that became exponentially difficult sharing a computer. Luckily for me, there was a computer hardware course offered at my middle school. There they taught us the basics of computer hardware and and how to put together a computer of our own. The downside was that it was afterschool, which is never desirable, however we got to keep the computers we built (for free).

So there I was, I finally had my own computer. Finally I could play runescape any time I want (during the weekend) and I can finally get stronger than my older brother. For insight purposes; I'm the type that likes to optimize in every game I play. I'm always looking for the best gears and best strategy etc. So upon extensive research into the game, I discovered scripting. Initially it seemed complex, but it meant I could be better than my brothers and that my character would improve autonomously.  It wasn't long before I was writing my own scripts for the game, leaving the game running as I went to school, turning the monitor off so my parents had no idea. It was from these primitive moments that I was exposed to taking things apart, dismantling complete products and 'tinkering' with them until they did as I willed. Of course my accounts got banned, I made new ones and even moved on to other games with an even bigger hacking community such as maplestory.

Fast forward a few years, I grew up and technology has gotten exponentially better.  By this point, I've already built two or three gaming desktop for my friends and I. I realized by now that I was really good at building computers. Summers spent doing arduous jobs just to get enough money to get that amazing new GPU. I had computer hardware mastered, and my gaming habits were admirable( or not, perspectives). Nevertheless, it was just a hobby, and as time went on I had to "focus" on "real life". I went to university, enrolled as a biology major, followed the beaten path. "Surefire way to success" and all. I still gamed of course, still applied cheats and bots. It wasn't until I'd graduated and worked in my field of study for a year (Vet tech) that I realized that I'd have a lot more fun and still earn a considerable income doing something I already have a feel for. So, rash decision and all, I decided to drop everything I've built and pursue a career in programming. Okay, not so rash, I started teaching myself programming before I resigned from my position. I utalized sources such as code academy and treehouse to teach myself basic web development. It wasn't until I felt comfortable with my knowledge that I applied myself to a bootcamp. Lo and behold.here I am now... doing what I want and having fun doing it.
